OCPBUG26050: Added a section for day2 operator for azure disk encryption sets. (#72130)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-azure-day2-operations-diskencryptionsets.adoc

//Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_azure/enabling-disk-encryption-sets-azure.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="preparing-disk-encryption-sets-day2-operator"]
= Preparing an Azure Disk Encryption Set for Day2 operator
The {product-title} installer can use an existing Disk Encryption Set with a user-managed key. To enable this feature, you can create a Disk Encryption Set in Azure and provide the key to the installer. 

.Prerequisite

> To enable encryption at host by using system managed key during the installation, set the following fields in `install-config.yaml`:

Reviewer: I think this should not be the prerequisite for enabling encryptionAtHost on day2, but another way to enable encryptionAtHost by using system managed key during installation.

Author: @jinyunma , Can you check if we need to add somehing else for prerequisites?

Reviewer: I think nothing to add for prerequisites on OCP side.
Checked in [Azure doc](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/disks-enable-host-based-encryption-portal?tabs=azure-cli#prerequisites), just make sure that the feature "EncryptionAtHost" is enabled for your subscription.

* `compute.platform.azure.encryptionAtHost`
* `controlPlane.platform.azure.encryptionAtHost`
* `platform.azure.defaultMachinePlatform.encryptionAtHost`

.Procedure

. Mark the node from the `encyptionATHost` cluster resource group as unschedulable using the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm cordon <node_name>

> ----

Reviewer: When enabling `encyptionATHost` on worker nodes, it's better to add another step to drain node and evacuate the pods from the compute node before de-allocating vms.

Here is [similar operations to update vm property on vSphere platform](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/updating/updating_a_cluster/updating-hardware-on-nodes-running-on-vsphere.html), the steps (operation on cluster) should be the same except shutting down vm/update property/starting vm, you can reference it.

I followed most steps of that doc and verified updating `encyptionATHost` on day2, cluster was running well after the changes.

Author: Ack

//Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_azure/enabling-disk-encryption-sets-azure.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="preparing-disk-encryption-sets-day2-operator_{context}"]
= Preparing an Azure Disk Encryption Set for Day2 Operator

> The {product-title} installer can use an existing Disk Encryption Set with a user-managed key. To enable this feature, create a `DiskEncryptionSet` in Azure and provide the key to the installer. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {product-title} installation program can use an existing Disk Encryption Set with a user-managed key. To enable this feature, create a `DiskEncryptionSet` in Azure and provide the key to the installation program. 

https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#installer-provisioned-infrastructure
```

.Prerequisite

> * The `EncryptionAtHost` feature must be enabled in your Azure subscription. For more information, see "Use the Azure portal to enable end-to-end encryption using encryption at host".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You enabled the `EncryptionAtHost` feature in your {ausre-short} subscription. For more information, see "Use the Azure portal to enable end-to-end encryption using encryption at host".
```

.Procedure

> . Mark the node from the `encyptionAtHost` cluster resource group as unschedulable using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Mark the node from the `encyptionAtHost` cluster resource group as unschedulable by using the following command:
```

![Screenshot From 2025-04-11 15-20-51](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/10cc5ab7-261f-4624-a465-db6c215fa8e2)

> . Mark the node from the `encyptionATHost` cluster resource group as unschedulable using the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Mark the node from the `encryptionAtHost` cluster resource group as unschedulable using the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm cordon <node_name>
----

> . Evacuate the pods from the compute node. There are several ways to do this. For example, you can evacuate all or selected pods on a node: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Evacuate the pods from the compute node. There are several ways to do this. For example, you can evacuate all the pods or the selected pods on a node: 
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc adm drain <node_name> --ignore-daemonsets --delete-emptydir-data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc adm drain <compute_node> [--pod-selector=<pod_selector>]
```

The options for "oc adm drain" can be referenced from https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.18/html-single/nodes/index#nodes-nodes-working-evacuating_nodes-nodes-working

Author: Added the link in the additional resources.

Reviewer: It's better to update line27 as what I suggested above.

One more question: where could I see the preview doc link? Looks like the link in the PR description is invalid.

----
+

> See the "Understanding how to evacuate pods on nodes" section for other options to evacuate pods from a node. 

Reviewer 2: Consider a TIP or Note for the section reference.

. De-allocate the node by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az vm deallocate -n <node_name> -g <cluster_resource_group>
----

. Set the `encryptionAtHost` property to `true` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az vm update -n <node_name> -g <cluster_resource_group> --set securityProfile.encryptionAtHost=true
----

. Start the node by running the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az vm start -n <node_name> -g <cluster_resource_group>
----

> . Mark the node as schedulable using the follwoing command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Mark the node as schedulable by using the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm uncordon <node_name>
----

> . Make sure that all the operators are available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Make sure that all the operators are available.
```

How?

Author: @jinyunma can you verify if this is the correct step:

```
. Verify that all cluster Operators are available:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get clusteroperators
----
+
All Operators should show `AVAILABLE=True`, `PROGRESSING=False`, and `DEGRADED=False`.
```

Reviewer: How about to check node status instead of operators status here? Similar as [hardware update for VM on vSphere](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.17/html/updating_clusters/performing-a-cluster-update#updating-hardware-on-nodes-running-on-vsphere).

Power on VM -> Wait for the node to report as "Ready" (`$ oc wait --for=condition=Ready node/<node_name>`) -> Make the node as schedulable again (`$ oc adm uncordon <node_name>`)

Same procedures are also verified in our automation script.

> . Repeat the above steps on all the nodes of the `encryptionAtHost`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Repeat the above steps on all the nodes that run `encryptionAtHost`.
```

[NOTE]
====

> If you want to enable encryption at host during installation, set the following fields in the `install-config.yaml` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to enable encryption for your host during cluster installation, specify the following parameters in the `install-config.yaml` file:
```

//Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_azure/enabling-disk-encryption-sets-azure.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="preparing-disk-encryption-sets-day2-operator_{context}"]
= Preparing an Azure Disk Encryption Set for Day2 Operator

> The {product-title} installation program can use an existing Disk Encryption Set with a user-managed key. To enable this feature, create a `DiskEncryptionSet` in Azure and provide the key to the installation program. 

Reviewer: Based on https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/72130#discussion_r2053562072, suggest to update here too, something like:
If disk encryption is not configured during installation, you can enable disk encryption with platform-managed keys on each node when cluster is up and running.
